---
title: "Examining the Differences in Performance between Male and Female High School Students in Denmark (1875-1890)"
subtitle: "Exploration of the first female university students in Denmark"
layout: default
members: [Katja Andersen]
projects: []
---

Before 1875, pursuing higher education was reserved exclusively for men in Denmark. Only after this year, women could finally enter the same spaces. How exactly did the first cohorts of young women compete in this very new environment? Academically, did these women achieve the same, worse, or better grades than men? Can the current patterns we are witnessing in regard to gender issues (e.g. unequal distribution of education majors, disparities in educational attainment, etc.) be seen in the past? The report will tackle each of these queries, one by one, using exclusive data provided by Danish historical archives, that have recently been converted to a digital form. This makes it feasible to construct several kinds of evaluations. Where most literature evaluating this period are subjected to basic statistics, this research has access to rich primary sources, which consists of extensive information about each graduate. It would allow for in-depth research on the reasons behind Denmark’s prosperity today and what factors, on an individual level, contributed to this. The findings contain fascinating outcomes. If private tuition, academic track, and social status in later years, were adjusted for, then a female high school student has an 87% greater probability of attaining above mean marks for the exam, compared to a male student. In the years between 1885 to 1890, a woman would have a 60% higher odds to perform above average. What’s more is that the same female graduates would enjoy a 76% and 68% increased odds of acquiring the highest grade, respectively. Surprisingly, students who received private tutoring, instead of attending a public school, had a much lower chance of getting a satisfactory grade. Though, which line of education the student took, and their social status did not appear to be affiliated with how much the student accomplishes. Needless to say, these estimates are not completely reliable, considering that there were only 57 female graduates and more than 4,000 male graduates between 1875 to 1890, makes the gender ratio very unbalanced. Thus, these observations are closely and critically observed to reveal and shed light on an exciting time: the start of industrialization in Denmark. What better way to do that by studying a period of radical change in women’s rights.

The master thesis is available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eywfeNcWDB42HlpSQrFLNp9QCh4tpK0O/view)
